scripts/README.md, before:

# Scripts

This directory contains utility scripts for maintaining the dotfiles repository.

## update-vscode-insiders.py

Updates VSCode Insiders version metadata and SHA256 hashes.

```bash
# Check for updates and update metadata.nix if needed
./scripts/update-vscode-insiders.py
```

- Fetches the latest commit from Microsoft's VSCode repository
- Downloads and calculates SHA256 hashes for each platform
- Updates `config/home-manager/programs/vscode/metadata.nix`
- Run automatically daily via GitHub Actions

## update-vscode-extensions.py

Updates VSCode extensions Nix expressions from the marketplace.

```bash
# Update from extensions file (default)
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py

# Update from currently installed VSCode extensions
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py --from-installed

# Specify custom paths
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py \
  --file /path/to/extensions \
  --output /path/to/extensions.nix

# Adjust parallelism and retry behavior
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py \
  --workers 5 \        # Use 5 parallel workers (default: 3)
  --retries 5          # Retry failed requests 5 times (default: 3)
```

- Reads extension list from file or installed VSCode
- Queries VS Code marketplace for latest versions in parallel
- Generates `extensions.nix` with metadata and SHA256 hashes
- Automatic retry with exponential backoff for failed requests
- Configurable parallelism to avoid overwhelming the marketplace API
- Run automatically monthly via GitHub Actions

### Workflow

1. Add/remove extensions in `config/home-manager/programs/vscode/extensions`
2. Run `./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py`
3. Commit the updated `extensions.nix`

Or use the `--from-installed` flag to sync with your current VSCode installation.

Commit message:

fix(vscode): format extensions.nix output to pass CI checks
- Add nixfmt-rfc-style formatting step after generating extensions.nix
- Use 'nix fmt' to ensure consistent formatting with project settings
- Fix attribute set formatting to avoid blank lines between extensions
- Handle arch attribute properly to avoid empty lines
- Update README to document Nix requirement for formatting
- Maintain consistent execution approach for both local and CI environments

This fixes CI failures where the generated extensions.nix file
doesn't meet the formatting requirements of the Check Formatting job.

scripts/README.md, after:

# Scripts

This directory contains utility scripts for maintaining the dotfiles repository.

## update-vscode-insiders.py

Updates VSCode Insiders version metadata and SHA256 hashes.

```bash
# Check for updates and update metadata.nix if needed
./scripts/update-vscode-insiders.py
```

- Fetches the latest commit from Microsoft's VSCode repository
- Downloads and calculates SHA256 hashes for each platform
- Updates `config/home-manager/programs/vscode/metadata.nix`
- Run automatically daily via GitHub Actions

## update-vscode-extensions.py

Updates VSCode extensions Nix expressions from the marketplace.

```bash
# Update from extensions file (default)
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py

# Update from currently installed VSCode extensions
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py --from-installed

# Specify custom paths
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py \
  --file /path/to/extensions \
  --output /path/to/extensions.nix

# Adjust parallelism and retry behavior
./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py \
  --workers 5 \        # Use 5 parallel workers (default: 3)
  --retries 5          # Retry failed requests 5 times (default: 3)
```

- Reads extension list from file or installed VSCode
- Queries VS Code marketplace for latest versions in parallel
- Generates `extensions.nix` with metadata and SHA256 hashes
- **Automatically formats output with nixfmt-rfc-style** (requires Nix)
- Automatic retry with exponential backoff for failed requests
- Configurable parallelism to avoid overwhelming the marketplace API
- Run automatically daily via GitHub Actions

**Note:** This script requires Nix to be installed for formatting the generated file.

### Workflow

1. Add/remove extensions in `config/home-manager/programs/vscode/extensions`
2. Run `./scripts/update-vscode-extensions.py`
3. Commit the updated `extensions.nix`

Or use the `--from-installed` flag to sync with your current VSCode installation.
